[Clary] Previously
on Shadowhunters...
[Cleophas] The Soul-Sword would destroy
demon-blooded creatures in its path.
If Valentine has the angel...
[Clary] He can activate
the Soul-Sword.
Children have a way of making
us terribly vulnerable.
Don't hurt her.
I will do anything you ask.
Someone has taken my spell book.
What does Valentine
want with my spells?
All he said was that I
had to get them for him.
And I wasn't to harm Clary.
You made a blood oath.
Find Madzie.
Clary may have pure angel blood.
That's why Valentine
wants Clary unharmed.
Clary can activate
the Soul-Sword.
Whoa! [Chuckles]
This is so weird.
[stammers] Yeah. Are my fangs in the way?
Because I can totally, um...
[Clary] No, no, you're fine.
You're fine...
- It's just the canoe's a little small to...
- Yeah.
- Ow! [Laughs]
- Ooh, careful. [Chuckling]
Oh, I'm sorry.
[both laughing]
I cannot believe I let
you talk me into this.
[chuckles] Me neither.
[Clary grunts]
It's okay. I got you.
Oh, great. In that case,
we'll just go down together.
Well, I mean...
I'm pretty sure this
thing is untippable.
- Oh, yeah?
- Yeah.
Well, I'll just have
to see about that.
Oh! Okay...
[both laughing]
- [horn blows]
- [both grunt]
- Jace. Hey.
- [chuckles]
What the hell are you doing? I...
You know what? Don't answer that.
Here you go.
Jace, it's okay. I'm safe here.
Until Valentine
stops hunting you,
the only place you're
safe is the Institute.
Really? I'm not sure you
actually know how hiding works.
The whole point is to, um,
not be where everyone thinks you are.
Trust me, I'm kind of an expert.
For an expert,
you were pretty easy to find.
Just be thankful I got to
you before the Circle did.
[Simon] I'm not afraid of them.
I've been working on
my fighting skills.
[scoffs] Oh, really?
You wanna take this outside and
give these fight skills a test run?
Anytime.
As soon as the sun goes down.
Guys, I can handle my...
- [skin burning]
- [yelps]
- What the hell?
- [Jace] What's wrong?
[breathing heavily]
I don't know.
[Simon] What is that?
[gasping]
How many Downworlders do
you think live in New York?
I don't know, but they're
not all your responsibility.
But you are.
-I can take care of myself.
- Maybe... but this is different.
You may have lived
through the fall of Rome,
but even the Dark Ages
couldn't have been this dark.
Alexander...
I know things may seem bleak, but...
nothing was as devastating as
seeing you standing on that ledge.
-It was the magic. I would never, never...
- I know, I know.
But magic can't create
fears, only bring them out.
-Magnus...
- Look, you don't have to explain yourself.
I've been through it myself.
Just promise you'll tell me
if things ever get that bad.
[door opens]
Don't you people have phones?
- [breathing heavily]
- We need your help.
La Chair Brûlée.
I'm guessing that's
not a dessert.
It means "the burnt flesh."
It's an old blood oath spell.
Then it must be Iris.
She said you owed her a favor.
At Max's party,
she said I have to find Madzie.
[Magnus] Then we
better start looking.
I can get rid of the
pain, but that's about it.
I'm afraid once the magic
reaches your heart...
So if I don't find Madzie...
I'm dead.
No... no.
Magnus, there has to be a cure.
There has to be something
we can do to stop this.
Can't we force Iris to undo it?
[Magnus] I wish
it were that easy.
But blood oath spells
are completely binding.
Even Iris herself
can't reverse it now.
- [knocking on door]
- Come in.
Isabelle, you look... recovered.
I'm impressed.
It takes most people weeks to
wean themselves off yin fen.
Well, I'm not most people.
You wanted to ask me something?
Do you have plans tonight?
[scoffs] Excuse me?
I was wondering if you'd
like to join me for dinner.
[chuckles] Um...
I'm sorry.
Are you asking me out?
[chuckles] I just wanted
to express my gratitude
for how well you kept the
Institute while I was away.
No thanks necessary.
I had nothing to do with it.
But I insist.
If not tonight,
how about tomorrow?
Sorry.
I don't know what to say.
I was so selfish,
hiding in the woods like that.
You would have never
went to Iris if...
Luke, this has nothing
to do with you.
You always told me to read the fine print.
Well, I guess, uh, now I know why.
- Magnus find anything?
- No.
Iris' brownstone was wiped clean,
but Alec just got a report from the Clave.
According to Iris,
Madzie was abducted from Brady Park.
All right, we'll start there.
I'll round up some wolves and
see if we can get a scent.
-Great. Hey. Where are you going?
- To get Simon.
If we're gonna be searching all
night, we can use his skills.
What skills?
- I don't know... night vision.
- There's a rune for that.
Too bad. He's coming.
I need him.
Are you awake in there?
Incoming sunlight.
[wolf growling]
[snarling]
[Simon] Clary?
[growling]
- Clary!
- [skin sizzling]
[groans]
Back off! [Grunts]
[whimpers]
- Nice form.
- [breathing heavily]
Five summers at
Camp Winnipesaukee.
[bones cracking]
Show yourself!
[sighs]
[Luke] What the hell
were you thinking?
I know about the Soul-Sword.
I was there at the party.
I heard everything.
- If Clary touches it, we're all dead!
- And that gives you the right to kill her?
You think this is easy?
You know me.
- You know I don't want to hurt anybody!
- [Simon] Really?
That's not what it looked like.
One life versus millions.
If killing Clary is the price
of saving the entire Downworld,
then I'm willing to pay it.
- She has to die.
- That is not your decision to make.
Simon...
I'm sorry.
Save it.
[Jace] You okay?
[Clary] I can feel it spreading.
What if Maia's right?
[Luke] She's not.
- You need to find Madzie.
- [Simon] No problem.
We'll take the van.
- Luke?
- I gotta stay here.
If Maia told the rest of the wolves
what that Sword is capable of,
you're in serious danger.
- But, Luke...
- No time to argue.
Word travels fast.
I'll catch up... after I stop the
Downworld from coming after you.
I'll see you soon, kiddo.
Hey.
- If anything happens to her...
- It won't.
- Trust me, I'll protect her.
- We'll protect her.
Just try to keep up.
Who does he think is driving?
[maniacal laughter]
[hissing]
I thought you said you
knew how this worked.
I'm trying,
but the injections...
I can barely generate enough
magic to create your Portals,
let alone a spell this complex.
Then perhaps you can teach her.
- No, she's too young.
- But powerful beyond her years.
By raising Madzie myself,
I'll finally have a warlock
that's unconditionally loyal.
Do you like your new
home, sweetheart?
I found it just for you.
And if you help me,
I promise to help you find your nana.
See? Madzie wants to help.
That is, unless you'd rather
I give her the injections.
- No.
- Good.
Then I'll leave you two
to get acquainted, huh?
[sighs]
Hi, Madzie. I'm Dot.
It's nice to meet you.
You're pretty.
[chuckles]
[sighs]
[Alec] Do you know
where Izzy is?
I was told you spoke
with her this morning.
She hasn't been in
the Institute since.
I didn't realize I was the
keeper of your sister's calendar.
Something's wrong.
She's been acting weird ever since
you sent her to the Iron Sisters.
I think you're being paranoid.
After what happened at
your brother's party,
perhaps I should recommend
you for a psych evaluation.
[grunts]
What reason would I have to lie?
- I don't know, but whatever it is...
- Nothing's going on.
I'm just trying to help.
Now, I would ask yourself...
is making insinuations about me
really the road you want to go down?
Isabelle's more than
capable of handling herself.
Come on... have a taste.
Delicious.
Although, I think it could use
a little more salsa picante.
Um, a little less.
Start spreading the
masa onto the husk.
That's the filling.
- Wait. Aren't they both filling?
- No.
This is the masa.
And this is the filling.
[scoffs] But they both
fill the corn leaf. You...
May I?
You know, for a vampire,
you're a pretty good cook.
I should be.
I cook every Sunday.
Not for myself, I...
drop meals off at a Catholic
retirement home in Harlem.
I didn't take you for a
community service kind of guy.
I'm not.
My little sister lives there.
She's 78.
She can't remember who I am.
Yet I can't forget about her.
I didn't know.
Nobody knows.
Except for you.
I'm sorry, I... I said too much.
I should keep my mouth shut.
No.
I rather you didn't.
[hissing]
[breathing heavily]
[moaning]
Don't make this any
harder than it already is.
Who else knows about Clary?
What she's capable of?
I don't know. Everybody?
I mean, you're too late, Luke.
The secret's out.
[sighs] I'm sorry.
I... [sniffles]
I know what I did was wrong.
I did it just because I...
- I... I was really scared.
- That doesn't change anything.
Locking me up in here doesn't really
change anything, either. I mean...
You've seen my file.
You know what I've been through.
- You know I get claustrophobic.
- I know.
But I'm doing this
for your own safety.
I don't want to
have to fight you.
- Me? All you care about is Clary!
- That's not true.
You know that you're
like family to me, too.
Then why am I in here
and she's out there?
Luke, I promise you,
I will not hurt Clary, just...
please don't leave me in here.
- I'm sorry, I have no choice.
- Luke, Luke. Please, please, please.
[Luke sighs]
[reporter speaking
indistinctly on radio]
I thought you were different.
[Clary] Are you sure this is
the park Alec was talking about?
[Jace] Positive.
See the scorched grass?
Someone opened a Portal.
[grunts]
[Simon] Nothing over there.
And without the wolves to
help us pick up a scent,
- this is gonna take forever.
- [Clary sighs]
We don't have forever.
Everyone keep looking.
Maybe he can help.
Excuse me, um...
a little girl might have gotten
kidnapped a few days ago.
I was wondering if
you've seen her.
- I don't know what you're talking about.
- [Clary] Are you sure?
She's about this tall, pigtails, always...
wears a scarf.
Hey, where'd you get that scarf?
Nowhere. I found it. It's mine.
Do you wanna make a trade?
[grunts]
What?
Keep heading north. The signal's
faint, but we can still track her.
Don't sound too excited.
- It's too easy.
- It wasn't easy.
That jacket's at least two
sizes small on that guy.
I'm just a great salesman.
Valentine's too smart to have not
thought about blocking the signal.
If we can track Madzie,
it's because he wants us to.
We'll be walking into a trap.
What are you suggesting?
That we don't find Madzie?
- That's not what I'm saying.
- Simon's right.
Trap or no trap,
the scarf is our only option.
[stammers] I can't let Valentine
activate the Soul-Sword, either.
So whatever happens,
you can't let him take me alive.
Uh...
Clary,
you're kind of freaking me out.
Trust me,
I've thought about it and...
[scoffs] Maia was right.
What are...
What are you talking about?
I would rather die than let
Valentine destroy the Downworld.
I need you to promise me.
If Valentine ever gets to me...
No.
Absolutely not.
I promise.
If it ever comes to that,
I won't let him take you alive.
Meliorn.
What happened to your face?
My punishment for helping Clary
Fairchild into one of the Queen's realms.
Well, it's good to see you.
I'd say the same, but, sadly,
I'm incapable of lying.
Shall we get this over with?
- Careful. Seelie armor.
- Means war. I noticed.
So I assume you all know
why I called you here.
- I've heard rumors.
- Well, unfortunately, the rumors are true.
Valentine wants to use the Soul-Sword
to decimate the entire Downworld,
and he needs Clary
to activate it.
And you have a plan?
Well, we can't defeat
Valentine on our own.
But together...
maybe we have a shot.
Whatever it is,
we can't have him get to Clary.
I agree.
But on behalf of the Seelie Queen,
I'd like to propose an alternative.
Execute Clary
Fairchild on sight.
- Care to rethink that?
- You'd be rotting in the City of Bones
had she not insisted
we save your life.
Then consider this my way
of returning the favor.
By killing her,
I'll be saving you from yourselves.
This council is biased.
You've all allowed yourselves to become
too involved with the Shadowhunters.
Jocelyn Fairchild.
Alec Lightwood.
- And you.
- [inhales deeply]
You've been seeing
Isabelle, haven't you?
- What are you talking about?
- I'd recognize that perfume anywhere.
Then you're no different
from the rest of us.
I'll admit,
I know her charms better than anyone.
But unlike you,
my feelings never affect my judgment.
My judgment's fine.
Clary has to die to
protect our people...
so be it.
Stay here. We'll be right back.
[siren wailing]
We're close. Very close.
This still feels way too easy.
And yet we've
encountered no traps.
Although if we did...
All that stuff you said about Clary...
You were just talking, right?
You wouldn't actually kill
your own sister, would you?
- No.
- Okay.
But that's why I need to do
this next part on my own.
What do you mean?
Clary's too weak to move, Simon.
She'd only be putting herself
in danger of getting captured.
Hey, I'll use the scarf to track Madzie.
I'll bring her back here.
But I need someone protecting
Clary while I'm gone.
That's easy for you to say.
You're the guy with the sword.
[stammering] What am I gonna do?
Protect her with my teeth?
We need your help here.
- Okay. All right, I'll stay.
- [cell phone ringing]
Just a sec, it's Luke.
[Luke] Simon, where are you?
Uh, we're still looking for Madzie.
What's up?
[sighs] You need to be careful.
The Downworld's falling apart.
I'm guessing the meeting
didn't go so well, then?
The vampires and the
Seelies want Clary dead.
They'll be hunting for you.
You know,
good thing you called when you did,
because Jace was just...
Oh, no. I'll call you back.
Okay.
You can do this.
[Maia] Is anybody out there?
[yelling] Hello! [Grunts]
[crying] Anybody? Anybody?
[sobbing]
No!
[bones cracking]
[growling]
You sure we're safe up here?
If I'm gonna die,
it's not gonna be in this van.
[sighs heavily]
Not on a night like tonight.
- Maybe we should go looking for Jace.
- No.
If he says he's gonna rescue Madzie,
we need to be here when he comes back.
- Sure.
- Yeah.
But at what point do we say
he's been gone too long?
We don't. Okay?
Hey...
[breathing shakily]
- If I don't make it...
- Stop. You will.
You have to.
Think about it. I mean...
a dashing, handsome Jewish boy...
finally admits to his best friend
- how he feels after a lifetime...
- [chuckles]
And she dies a week later?
That's too sappy.
Like a real-life Fault in Our Stars.
[chuckles]
That's not the plot
of that book at all.
- Really?
- No.
Oh, I never read it. Or saw it.
I just kind of thought
that's what it was about.
[chuckles]
Hey.
Hmm.
[cries] I just need
you to know that...
I'm so glad you and I...
[softly] I know.
[gasps]
You said you know where Izzy is?
Well, not exactly.
You know,
I expect this from Aldertree...
but not from you.
What's going on? And why do I seem to
be the last person to know about it?
A couple days ago,
I saw Isabelle trying to buy yin fen
from a certain reprobate
warlock at the Hunter's Moon.
You sure it was her?
[sighs]
I asked her what she was doing,
but she told me that she was undercover.
- Why didn't you say anything?
- She's an excellent liar.
It wasn't until this evening
that I put it all together.
Something Meliorn said
at the Downworld meeting.
I think she's getting her
fix straight from the source.
Where is she?
Careful, Madzie.
Don't burn yourself, hmm?
[chuckles]
How fatherly.
I didn't know you had it in you.
Ah, Jonathan.
I figured you'd come for
young Madzie sooner or later.
Although, it's a shame you
didn't bring your sister along.
Let the girl go.
I'm afraid young Madzie is
quite happy where she is.
Oh, I think Iris would disagree.
She made Clary
take a blood oath.
If I don't get Madzie to
her in the next few hours...
Clary dies.
I suppose you're here
to save her life?
I'm here to give
you an ultimatum.
I'll let Clary die if I have to...
but you need her alive.
You're bluffing.
You couldn't kill your
falcon when you were a boy,
and you can't kill
your sister now.
I have demon blood.
If you destroy the
Downworld, I go with it.
I'm just trying to save myself.
It's your choice...
but I'm not gonna ask you again.
Either Madzie comes with me...
or your angel dies.
[slurping]
- [door opens]
- Hey! What are you doing here?
- You can't go in...
- [blow lands]
[grunts]
[gasps]
[both grunt]
- Alec?
- You stay the hell away from her.
You don't understand. It was Aldertree
who got her addicted to yin fen.
What?
It's the truth.
I was only trying to help.
By drinking her blood?
[both grunting]
It may have started
with the blood,
but it's more complicated than
that, all right?
I care about her.
- What did you say?
- I... [panting]
I have feelings for her.
[exhales heavily]
Raphael, let him go.
[grunting]
Stop it!
Stop!
Alec, stop! This is my fault!
Alec, stop!
This is my family.
If you had told me about the yin fen,
none of this would have happened.
- I didn't know.
- [Alec] You knew enough.
We're leaving.
I wasn't lying
about what I said.
[panting]
There's something about her...
I haven't felt this
way in a long time.
You're so hooked on her blood,
you can't separate your
feelings from your addiction.
Isabelle and I are no
different from you and Alec.
And I thought you of all
people would understand.
If you truly believe that...
see if you still feel the same
when you're not getting high.
Let go, Alec! I'm staying!
- Alec, let go!
- Izzy, come on!
I know you think you're trying to
make things right, but you're not.
Raphael's been there for
me when I needed him.
Needed him?
- Look at yourself.
- He saved my life.
You didn't even notice
when something was wrong.
- Saved your life? What are you...
- I'm not your baby sister anymore, Alec.
Just go! I don't need your help.
- Izzy, please.
- I said go.
Fine.
Clary, Clary...
- [Clary breathing heavily]
- [breathing shakily]
Clary. Clary, stay awake.
Stay awake.
Stay awake just a little longer...
Don't go.
Hey, hey, don't cry.
I'm not. It's, um, allergies.
[sniffles] You know me. Ragweed.
- [Jace] Clary!
- Jace!
[Clary] Madzie.
Madzie, you're okay.
I told you, didn't I?
- I couldn't have saved her without you.
- Obviously.
Thank you for...
you know, everything.
Madzie, what are you doing?
[Jace] No! [Simon] Clary!
[carnival music playing]
[groaning]
Well done, Madzie.
Your nana is gonna be so proud of you.
But you still have a lot more to
do before you can see her, okay?
So run along.
Hello again, Clarissa.
You must still hate me for
what happened to your mother.
I don't blame you.
Jocelyn's death will always
be my greatest regret.
If you have any shred of humanity
left, you would stop this.
My humanity is what
keeps me going.
If the angels designed the Sword
to rid the world of demons,
I'm just ensuring it
fulfills its true purpose.
[panting] Okay, this isn't good.
Clary could be anywhere.
Not anywhere. Valentine still
needs a bolt of lightning.
Great. So what's the plan?
You want me to check the five-day forecast
for every city in the entire world?
You were right.
Finding Madzie was way too easy.
As much as I love to hear you say
that, now is really not the time.
Okay, Luke just texted me.
Maybe he can do something.
- [man screaming]
- What the hell?
[snarling]
[Jace] Don't move!
- He's dead.
- Dude, that's not normal.
Even the worst of
Camille's people
wouldn't risk attacking
a mundane on the street.
- Especially not with a Seelie.
- That was a Seelie?
Do you think that's what
Luke was talking about?
A Downworld revolt?
No. No, I recognize that vamp.
He's in Valentine's zoo.
Why would Valentine have
Downworlders attack mundanes?
That makes no sense.
It must have something
to do with the Sword.
- [man screaming]
- [cell phone ringing]
Jace? Are you okay?
- No. Something weird's going on, Alec.
- [Alec] Yeah, tell me about it.
We have reports of violent
Downworlders all over Manhattan.
I think it's Valentine.
I can explain later,
but right now, I need your help.
- Is Clary...
- It's complicated.
Yeah,
what's that supposed to mean?
It means we fulfilled the blood
oath, but now Valentine has her.
I think he's trying to
activate the Soul-Sword.
I need everyone you have to
be looking for her right now.
Yeah, that's not that easy.
Aldertree dispatched every Shadowhunter
we have to stop the attacks.
Well, undispatch them, Alec.
Hey, I think I know
how to find Clary.
[clattering]
[growling]
[woman] What do you want?
What do you want?
[woman screaming]
- [screaming]
- Hey!
- [vampire growls]
- [yells]
[screaming]
[growling]
Remember me?
[grunting]
[hisses] Where do you come from?
Where's Valentine?
Where's Valentine? Tell me!
[growling]
Tell me!
[woman whimpers]
[Simon grunting]
- [gunshots]
- [body thuds]
[sighs]
Are you kidding me?
I thought he was dead.
- He definitely is now.
- [growling]
Valentine must be
experimenting again.
- I bet there's more where that came from.
- Which means...
you're gonna tell
us where he is,
or you're gonna end up
just like your friend.
[wolf growling]
[bones cracking]
[door opens]
[footsteps approaching]
Okay, I know this is
an abandoned building,
but it's starting to
seem extra-abandoned.
- Are we too late?
- No. Scent's still fresh.
Someone's here.
We gotta move fast.
Fan out.
Cover as much ground as you can.
[Alec] The initial attacks
were in South Brooklyn,
so we're gonna focus our search
there and then move outward.
Remember, whatever happens,
our priority is to locate Clary.
Disregard that order.
What the hell do you
think you're doing?
Stopping Valentine from
destroying the Downworld.
And yet from the look of things,
it's the Downworld that's
trying to destroy us.
Look,
I don't have time to argue.
- Either help me, or get out of the way.
- Or you'll do what?
Remember how I said that
you were hiding something?
Supplying yin fen
to a subordinate...
An ex-field medic
should know better.
And you expect anyone to actually
believe this ridiculous accusation?
Who knows? Idris loves gossip.
And you're one Clave investigation away
from treating frostbite on Wrangel Island.
From now on,
I'm calling the shots.
Don't ever threaten
my family again.
Now if you don't mind, I need these
Shadowhunters to go find Clary.
Do as he says.
[sighs heavily]
[footsteps approaching]
- Jace!
- Clary!
Where's Valentine?
I don't know. All the Circle
members just left in a hurry.
Okay. Don't move.
- Okay, we have to get out of here before...
- Going someplace?
I didn't think so.
She's strong for her
age, isn't she?
Madzie. Hey, please...
Please let Jace go.
Now why would she do that, hmm?
Because you wanna hurt people.
People like Iris.
[Valentine] Don't forget...
this is the mean person that got your
nana in trouble in the first place.
Now, if you want to see Iris,
you have to be a good little girl
and do exactly what I say, okay?
[grunting]
Clary, run!
[Valentine] Brave and stupid.
Sweetheart, save your magic for
what's to come. It's time to go.
- I'll see you soon, Clarissa.
- Simon!
Simon, no!